Task is cross-validation in machine learning to improve your model.  Let's imagine that you're solving a problem with machine learning and you have one singular table of data.  This singular data table is all you will ever get to solve this problem,  so every single row feels precious and you don't want to waste any of them by throwing them away for testing too early.  You're considering some different models and hyperparameters,  but for each option, you're curious how well that choice would actually perform on unseen data.  But again, you only have one table to simulate that future world.  K-fold cross-validation is a very systematic way to reuse this table of data  so that every row can take turns pretending to be the test data,  but also helps train the model.  So let's break this down.  The first thing that happens is the shuffling of the rows in the table.  Shuffling does not change any values inside of each row at all,  but rather which row stands in which position in the table. Shuffling does not change any values inside of each row at all, but rather which row  stands in which position in the list. The reason for doing this is that our original data might  have long blocks of very similar data points. So when we go to split this data into groups later  on, we won't have a lot of variation within each group. But once the rows are shuffled, the code  decides how to split them into k folds. Here a fold is simply one of those equal slices of the shuffled

data. So for today's example, suppose we said k equal to 5 and we split our data table with 10  rows into 5 different groups. The code walks through the shuffled table and assigns each row  a fold label, such as fold 1, fold 2, fold 3, and so on until all 10 rows are labeled. These tags  will not change for the rest of the process. Now the real cross-validation begins and we're running a game of sorts with k rounds, one round for each fold.  Here's the big idea. In each round, we pretend that one fold represents future unseen data and  the remaining folds represent the training data. So in round one, the code chooses one of the folds  to be the validation fold. Let's just say for this example, it's fold 1. Each row that is labeled fold 1 is now treated as forbidden testing data for this round. This means these rows will absolutely  not be shown to the model during training, and they'll serve as a little bit of an exam later.  All of the other rows, the ones labeled fold 2, 3, 4, and 5, are considered training data for this  particular round. Using these tags and this logic, the code now constructs two very small data tables with the training and testing data for round one.

The original full dataset remains untouched in the background, but while we're in the process of cross-validation,  the model will only interact with these two derived tables for this round.  Now that we have this data, the code creates a brand new model.  The model has whatever architecture and hyperparameters you choose, but its internal weights and parameters are still in their initial state. And remember, from the model's point of  view, its entire world consists of only the training data, the folds 2 through 5. During  training, the algorithm repeatedly shows the model's input columns and the correct answers  from the training data, and the model keeps adjusting and fixing itself until it has reached  its maximum performance. When training in round one is finished, it's time to see how well it can generalize on rows it has never seen before.  The code takes this temporary testing data from round one, which is all the rows labeled fold one.  It runs this testing data through the model and compares the model's predicted outputs to the  true values. From those comparisons, it computes a single performance number for this round,  such as accuracy or error  or F1. That number is stored and labeled mentally as the score for round one. And after this, the

model from round one is never to be seen again. It has done its purpose, and now it's time for round  two. Round two has the same overall pattern, but the roles of the folds shift. Now fold two plays  the role of the secret testing fold, while folds one, 3, 4, and 5 are used as the training  data. The code now builds updated training and testing data tables based on these new roles.  And now it's ready to build a completely fresh model again for round 2 and records the resulting  performance for this model. After the performance metric has been saved, this model is discarded as  well. And as you can imagine, this same storyline repeats for all the remaining folds. At the end of all k rounds, you are left with k separate performance numbers, one for each  round, each one summarizing how well a specific model did on a held out validation fold. The final  cross-validation score that people usually report is the average of all these numbers. This is often  interpreted as a more reliable estimate of how the model performs on unseen data because it reflects  the performance across many different ways of splitting into training and testing instead of just one.  Sometimes the code can also compute how spread out these numbers are using standard deviation,

which tells you how stable the performance is across different splits. So now hopefully when  you code this line in Python, you know exactly what's going on. So don't forget to save this  video for the next time you're trying out cross-validation and follow for more.